  form arches over gateways, or entrances to alcoves, and they may
  perhaps have been told that these were the ribs of whales.” —_Tales
  of a Whale Voyager to the Arctic Ocean_.

  “It was not till the boats returned from the pursuit of these whales,
  that the whites saw their ship in bloody possession of the savages
  enrolled among the crew.” —_Newspaper Account of the Taking and
  Retaking of the Whale-Ship Hobomack_.

  “It is generally well known that out of the crews of Whaling vessels
  (American) few ever return in the ships on board of which they
  departed.” —_Cruise in a Whale Boat_.

  “Suddenly a mighty mass emerged from the water, and shot up
  perpendicularly into the air. It was the whale.” —_Miriam Coffin or
  the Whale Fisherman_.

  “The Whale is harpooned to be sure; but bethink you, how you would
  manage a powerful unbroken colt, with the mere appliance of a rope
  tied to the root of his tail.” —_A Chapter on Whaling in Ribs and
  Trucks_.

  “On one occasion I saw two of these monsters (whales) probably male
  and female, slowly swimming, one after the other, within less than a
  stone’s throw of the shore” (Terra Del Fuego), “over which the beech
  tree extended its branches.” —_Darwin’s Voyage of a Naturalist_.

  “‘Stern all!’ exclaimed the mate, as upon turning his head, he saw
  the distended jaws of a large Sperm Whale close to the head of the
  boat, threatening it with instant destruction;—‘Stern all, for your
  lives!’” —_Wharton the Whale Killer_.

  “So be cheery, my lads, let your hearts never fail, While the bold
  harpooneer is striking the whale!” —_Nantucket Song_.


  “Oh, the rare old Whale, mid storm and gale In his ocean home will be
  A giant in might, where might is right, And King of the boundless
  sea.” —_Whale Song_.





CHAPTER 1. Loomings.

Call me Ishmael. Some years ago—never mind how long precisely—having
little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular to interest me
on shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery part
of the world. It is a way I have of driving off the spleen and
regulating the circulation. Whenever I find myself growing grim about
the mouth; whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever
I find myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and
bringing up the rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever
my hypos get such an upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral
principle to prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street, and
methodically knocking people’s hats off—then, I account it high time to
get to sea as soon as I can. This is my substitute for pistol and ball.
With a philosophical flourish Cato throws himself upon his sword; I
quietly take to the ship. There is nothing surprising in this. If they
but knew it, almost all men in their degree, some time or other,
cherish very nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me.

There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round by
wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs—commerce surrounds it with her
surf. Right and left, the streets take you waterward. Its extreme
downtown is the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and
cooled by breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of
land. Look at the crowds of water-gazers there.

Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon. Go from Corlears
Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by Whitehall, northward. What
do you see?—Posted like silent sentinels all around the town, stand
thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries. Some
leaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads; some
looking over the bulwarks of ships from China; some high aloft in the
rigging, as if striving to get a still better seaward peep. But these
are all landsmen; of week days pent up in lath and plaster—tied to
counters, nailed to benches, clinched to desks. How then is this? Are
the green fields gone? What do they here?

But look! here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and
seemingly bound for a dive. Strange! Nothing will content them but the
extremest limit of the land; loitering under the shady lee of yonder
warehouses will not suffice. No. They must get just as nigh the water
as they possibly can without falling in. And there they stand—miles of
them—leagues. Inlanders all, they come from lanes and alleys, streets
and avenues—north, east, south, and west. Yet here they all unite. Tell
me, does the magnetic virtue of the needles of the compasses of all
those ships attract them thither?

Once more. Say you are in the country; in some high land of lakes. Take
almost any path you please, and ten to one it carries you down in a
dale, and leaves you there by a pool in the stream. There is magic in
it. Let the most absent-minded of men be plunged in his deepest
reveries—stand that man on his legs, set his feet a-going, and he will
infallibly lead you to water, if water there be in all that region.
Should you ever be athirst in the great American desert, try this
experiment, if your caravan happen to be supplied with a metaphysical
professor. Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded for
